I don't know if you guys maybe I've
understand it all sort of started and
say February I was planning go to
Thailand and we were going to really
enduring order something subconsciously
was like I want to look good when I meet
these people so like I was saying um
period gone it's been gone I am NOT
healthy I have this sort of like thing
on my neck I don't know if you have
noticed it it's been around for a couple
months and I don't really know what it
is it's some kind of a dry patch of skin
and I think I had something like this
before in my life when I was 14 and then
I was diagnosed with anorexia I'm so mad
at myself that I that I I just I want to
be the best example for you guys and I
don't want anyone to do this
Hey I had lunch today with a young woman
who comes from a bit more of a
conventional political science career
path she got a degree in political
science she got a job with the
government push papers around a desk for
a few years and now what do you know I
bump into her here in China it's not a
date unless I say it was a date but hey
we met up and had lunch talk politics
history etc etc and it's very peculiar
for me to have to explain to someone
from that background and in that
position that yeah I'm kind of sort of
part of this political movement called
veganism and one of the things I said to
were quoting one of my past videos I
told her the best video I said one of
the things I say about this movement
it's simultaneously the realists and the
fakest thing in the world like in terms
of the gravitas the reality this has for
us in our lives
I gave the example the video I have up
with Zarya you know the agony of
activism I said during that video both
she and I break down weeping and we're
just talking about stuff like you know
witnessing animals getting their throats
cut protests at slaughterhouses the
sense of hopelessness you have and
trying to influence your fellow man to
adopt veganism in that sense veganism is
the realest thing in the world it's much
realer to us than for example um the
suffering of children in Vietnam was
during the heyday of the anti-vietnam
War protests and if you guys know
anything about me unless this is the
first video you've seen on my channel
that is a chapter of history I care a
lot about I've done a lot of research on
but there's a visceral reality to how we
care about animals how we care but in
rights even how we care about ecology
from ecology is pretty visceral I feel
it I do um it's not just about knowing
it's about feeling and it's about action
so the sense in which the realest thing
in the world and there's another sense
in which it's just unbelievably fake is
another sense in which we're dealing
with this you know candy-coated fat
shaming veneer of selling a body image
selling diet books
you know the bikinis the permanent
vacation the women who are celebrated as
great beauty icons who maybe aren't so
beautiful anyway and you know all the
kind of snake oil salesmen within what
what he is fundamentally a form of
activism you know it's it's it's a it's
a political movement whether you want to
be or not uh-huh
lifestyle activism permanent vacation
etc etc it's just someone who's a
complete outsider so Mia this is just
today it's a couple hours ago I'm having
lunch with this very attractive young
woman but it's not a date and I've got
to explain - yeah you know what I'm I'm
a vocal person in this I'm an aspiring
activist myself I'm in some to some
extent I'm an influential voice within
this you know upcoming social movement
but yeah you know what um there are
shirtless selfie pics of mine on the
internet yup and she's shocked and she's
like why this part it's part of the
reality's movement today people you know
rolled in with this is diet and exercise
and fat shaming yeah you know a related
example for me before I get into the
main topic of this video you know there
is a woman who was flirting with me in
the comments section of my live
broadcasts I my videos are posted to
YouTube but I do live broadcasting on
you-now similar-sounding website but
different interface people could chat
with me real-time and there was this
woman who was sending me kind of
flirtatious messages she'd been doing
that for a while she put in work and as
another woman who I know from around the
internet who just started that she would
start saying your it was really nasty -
it was really I've seen photographs of
you you don't take care of your body and
she was at the same time boasting about
how lean she was so the woman doing the
insulting not the woman flirting with me
the woman the woman insulting the woman
who was flirting with me was like you
know I'm five foot five and a hundred
and twenty five pounds and you don't
take care of yourself you're like a fat
piece of [ __ ] this kind of this kind of
stuff
and I know I know the woman making the
insults she's not trying to flirt with
me like it's not jealousy or anything
like I really just think it's the it's
the boiling frog syndrome for what's
become normal and the woman who had been
flirting with me this this piqued my
interest because her response was like
I'm not trying to be a movie star yeah
I'm not trying to be a bikini model and
she said something about her life she
was like look you know like I I I'm in a
biochemical research
like that's my vehicle okay
she's dodging accusations I don't know I
don't know what she looks at us I've
never seen it photographed that woman
but you know what is a myth maybe I
could lose a few pounds so the hell what
is this conversation going and I love
that I think it's a very relaxed very
self confident attitude AB to say hey my
life is not about being Beachbody ready
my life is about biochemistry in my case
oh yeah so that my stack of books is in
the shot here
can I just kind of just push this out a
lot a lot of my time is spent you know
sitting at a table looking at funny
little squiggles on a piece of paper
studying languages history politics etc
to some extent that's what my life is
about and to some extent for me going to
the gym is just a pleasant break from
that but yeah we have a very strange
little political movement here in that
you know money and sex and fame are
major motivating factors have I seen
worse yes a situation I think in
Buddhist politics is worse and there
it's money sex and power a little bit of
Fame different set of motive forces and
you know other forms of corruption other
other aspects of human nature come to
the fore but no doubt I mean yeah I met
here here in Kunming just a couple
months ago I met a guy who was a Vietnam
War veteran and then after he fought in
the war he became part of the anti-war
movements it was a politicized you know
ethically motivated guy who had a lot of
hands-on experience in the war
did tell me some anecdotes about killing
people to be blunt then he went back to
United States and he was involved in
those protests he was a speaker he would
go to organized events and protest and
he would give eloquent speeches and what
was going on in the war and his
perspective on why the war should be
stopped etcetera etc um and when I told
him just a little bit just a few
sentences what was going on in be vegan
politics he sat there and said oh yeah
and he started telling me about the
extent to which and I think this is an
unwritten history he said you know what
was going on in the anti-vietnam
protests a lot of it was motivated by
sex and fame and money and those guys
like himself who went around from event
to event on American college campuses
and gave these very eloquent very pious
speeches about why you know they should
stop dropping bombs on Cambodia stop
dropping bombs on Laos and this kind of
thing I talked about the suffering of
the innocent children they were very
much at the same time lining up their
date for that evening with the young
women on the crowd again typically at
college campuses but a some times these
were at left-wing churches in Ho the the
settings for these anti-war protests
very often they were there were a lot of
religious groups that were that were
organized and opposed in Vietnam war but
whatever was yeah sex and money and fame
and those motives were very much on the
table so it's interesting it was
refreshing to hear that and he was he
was someone who I guess benefited from
that or in another sense he was somebody
was corrupted by it so real talk
our political movement and its problems
it's not completely exceptional I don't
know if we're the exception of the rule
or if this is the rule but you see the
way money sex and fame leads people
around about the nose I know a certain
friend of mine on YouTube the first
month he made $5,000 on YouTube that
really changed his perspective and why
$5,000 isn't that much money but if you
start thinking what if I can make $5,000
every month then I don't need a job
anymore then I don't need a career then
YouTube is you know pays my rent a
little bit of money I mean some people
are more easily influenced than others a
little bit
a little bit of fame a little bit of sex
how much does it take to to lead you
down the road now um
I was just looking at this video from is
Edie
sounds like a rapper formerly known as
Izzy Davis now she just uses her last
initial is Edie and Anna from my
perspective she is not really examining
or explaining what the problems were but
she was reflecting on the extent to
which this movement influenced her just
within the last few months to regress
into an eating disorder
apparently some years ago she was
diagnosed with anorexia and she struggle
with that she felt she'd won but she
states very simply and very briefly in
this video that in preparing to go to
Thailand what believe I met her she was
in Chiang Mai at the same time I was I
met a nondescript blonde and her
boyfriend at one of the vegan
restaurants there and they knew who I
was and they said hi but they were
nervous but they were kind of glad to
meet me and I didn't honestly I didn't
really recognize her but I think that
was is Edie who I bumped into we didn't
it was it was really high hey hey I know
you from YouTube yeah I know you from
UTA okay I'm gonna I'm gonna get these
noodles you know but that was it like I
wasn't any profundity today to that it's
ration but I'm pretty sure I did bumpy
tour we were there in Chiang Mai at the
same time but long story short she felt
pressure to lose weight to go to that
part of Thailand representing veganism
right and we all know why that is look
in a sense it doesn't need to be
explained we all know that within this
movement there is pressure on people as
the face of the movement to be to look
like freely let's be blunt and I think
she's a she's a kind of sad case study
of the impact that has on some people
but the unpack it a little bit here it's
not just to look like freely it's that
you have to get the results in the same
way that freely pretends she gets the
results which is to say effortlessly one
of the big catchphrases that freely is
brought in the game is it's all you more
effortless weight loss that the
lifestyle and the weight loss is
effortless and I think we all know
part of what meets this so sad and so
sick is that these people even when they
don't have a full-time job and when
they're not raising kids even when
they're not giving lectures on
biochemistry or giving lectures on the
history of the Vietnam War that actually
these people are putting a ton of effort
into maintaining their figures male or
female into maintaining a certain
aesthetic a certain look and they still
struggle with their life weight their
life is still truant and and is Edie
from my perspective she's another
example of that the the the illusion
isn't just that she's lean I mean I said
she really is lean the illusion is that
it's effortless because the idea is that
we're supposed to be selling veganism as
a lifestyle that will let you achieve
those results effortlessly right and
this has consequences hilariously even
as consequence for someone like as Edie
now is Edie is not just motivated by
money if you look at her channel it's
very clear that her main source of money
her main source of notoriety her main
source of fame are these so called
ASMR videos I guess they're like mildly
erotic videos where she has her friend
run her run their fingernails through
her hair is another one where she's
using a brush to brush her friends back
and they're like 20 minutes long each
and they've got all of them have over a
hundred thousand viewers they have
nothing to do with veganism I'm not my
point is not to hate on that John writes
it's kind of a weird genre to me again I
assume people watch it apparently simple
watch because they find it relaxing or
they find it erotic but if she were
motivated by money every single video
would obviously be that kind of video
it's not her videos on veganism as a
movement or her videos on Thailand or
her videos on any of this other stuff
that's bringing in money through YouTube
so I'm actually saying that to give her
credit and I'm pointing out that her
talking about veganism or her personal
life that is you know in a sense an
authentic commitment to coming on
YouTube and wanting to share something
real and it's important her something
she feels that matters more than what
really gets her viewers and what gets
her money so I'm not actually raising
that to hate on it I just say that in
terms of the the push and pull of the
influence that money might have on this
equation that's there but
again there's money fame sex power and I
think really what we're dealing with
here with her case her looking at her as
a canary in a coal mine it's the power
element of the equation right it's the
sense of authority and importance that
someone like Frehley had it in effect
saying to her not actually saying it but
the message of freelee's whole
methodology is if you want to come here
to chiang mai you want to be respected
you want to be a leader or you want to
be a voice in this movement you better
lose weight of course she already was
lean but she decided she needed to lose
even more weight before she went to
Thailand to be seen in that context and
as she narrates she lost her period she
got critically underweight she was
getting some other symptoms and she's
afraid that she's really progressed into
anorexia or anorexic type behavior which
in the past she was diagnosed with and
she thought she had she had overcome she
thought that part of her life was over
and it's not um and anyway all these
things I mean there's a kind of power in
pretending that these things are
effortless but I mean I'm not interested
in that power we can do that in Buddhism
you didn't scholarship you do that in
magic tricks and if the magician
pretends something is effortless
pretends it happened at that-air is that
more of a convincing illusion then
showing you a kind of struggle you know
showing that that there's a price to be
paid on the part of the conjurer you
know I can see both ways for me I'm
interested in a totally down earth way
sharing with you the struggle that is my
life but just lately it seems that
trying to present again you know what
look let's keep it all the way real that
is one of the reasons why my channel
exists is that I was sick and tired of
people saying veganism is effortless and
it'll make you happy and it solves all
your problems and you feel great and you
wake up with tons of energy every day
and it's it's simple and anodyne and I
for me on both a deep level in a shallow
level I reacted that by thinking no
veganism is a struggle my life is hard
you know it's emotionally hard it's
intellectually hard it's it can be
harrowing I already use this example of
me and Zarya we both break down weeping
in that video talking about animals
getting their throats slit you know the
the steps leading up
- you becoming vegan can be very
emotionally hard and then you know what
happens afterwards in terms of activism
in terms of the struggle to actually
influence government policy terms the
struggle to bring about cultural change
in terms of staring in the face of the
indifference and hostility of your own
parents your co-workers your cousin's
your your best friends your boyfriend
your girlfriend that you care about this
so much
and you know and just going hungry [ __ ]
today I went hungry for hours and hours
of not being able to buy food because
you're freaking yeah some of that
shallow some of that's deep but to me
all of it is a struggle so that that
illusion of effortlessness it is one of
the reasons why this channel even exists
why I take the time to come online and
share my life with you people it's
because I want to talk about what's real
I want to talk about its political meet
politically meaningful and I want to
talk about the struggle and anyway so
veganism as a social movement but even
as a diet even as a lifestyle choice I
think you know it behooves us to be
honest about that struggle but for
better and for worse veganism now is
linked to a lot of body image issues and
a lot of frankly debates about anorexia
right now's Neil's to say I have no
history and anorexia anniversary is not
mayor of expertise there are plenty of
other channels already on YouTube from
people who are either currently anorexic
or recovering anorexics
there's already a ton of material that
in the internet so if you're looking for
an expert insiders opinion on anorexia
that's not what this videos about that's
not more channels about but on the other
hand already in this video in the last
10 minutes I think you've probably
gotten a perspective that's very
different for you get for another
channel so I hope you hang with me for
the next few minutes I've got a letter
here I'm gonna read out from someone who
has recovered from anorexic or saris or
is recovered from anorexia it'll be
pretty obvious to you why she's writing
to me right away and she was actually
asking me for advice about starting her
own YouTube channel talking about
veganism etc okay so now I'm gonna read
this letter hello eyes'll long time
viewer here before I get to my real
questions I just wanted to make a
suggestion of creating a schedule for
your new you know broadcast because I
always seem to meet miss the first 30
minutes to an hour of context you're not
gonna get scheduled
but anybody thanks thanks for thing with
that I guess I'm writing this email to
get advice for two main questions
basically if I should start a YouTube
channel and if my story would even be
worth telling if it would give me if it
would give people more excuses not to go
vegan or if it would possibly possibly
positively impact someone's life the
next few paragraphs will probably be
emotionally fueled contradictions I'm
giving this as a warning
I'm currently 23 years old and in
recovery for an anxiety disorder for me
for an anxiety disorder and bulimia
nervosa okay sorry so believe me on on
anorexia I've reached a stage where my
anxiety disorder is pretty manageable
and I'm just beginning to start recovery
for my bulimia I'm about to move back to
a major city to start part-time classes
at a major university basically I'm just
putting my life back together so she
does mention where she's living I'm just
censoring that stuff out I'm just making
this anonymous by removing the the name
of the city in the name of the
University I'll try to put my eating
order to store sorry I'll try to put my
eating disorder story below in layman's
terms as I don't know how well versed
you are in the terminology in a lot of
ways my eating disorder was the
beginning of a cycle of veganism
vegetarianism and an omnivore diet five
years ago when my eating disorder first
turned from disorder eating into an
actual disorder I was an omnivore
I ate mostly everything as long as it
fit into my calorie goal for that day
and then I watched the movie Earthlings
that was when I first went vegan for me
it was mostly an ethical commitment I'm
not going to lie and say there wasn't a
small amount of my eating disorder
perhaps 5% influencing that decision I
would say that this was around November
2013 that lasted if I recall correctly
until the Christmas break during my
first year of college December 2014
that's actually a pretty long run of
being vegan especially for someone with
two serious diagnosed disorders but okay
during this time was what so during this
time I first started showing signs of
bulimia binging and purging I'm not so
stupid as to blame veganism for my
eating disorder I realized that it was a
mix of Janette
an environment that contributed to my
bulimia though I think some eating
disorder specialist would say that going
vegan it may have been a trigger for me
okay so this is someone who isn't at
this point involved with the kind of
peer pressure we've just been talking
about yet in the movement or YouTube or
anything else
I remember four weeks before Christmas
break I started to get the craving that
some ex vegans would talk about though I
think when you have bulimia those
cravings take on a whole new monstrous
dimension it's literally something you
can't stop thinking about it keeps you
up at night and you even start to dream
about food binging and purging is not
just about the cravings though it's also
but the self-hatred and losing all
self-control during and after the binge
when you have a mental illness your
worst enemy is your own mind it knows
all your secrets all your weaknesses and
how to break you for a vegan I think
that one of the worst scenarios you
could be in is being force-fed
meat dairy and eggs for someone with
bulimia and maybe coming back home
during Christmas break and seeing all
the food that you were craving but
didn't allow yourself to have for over a
year not to mention the normal questions
and debates you have to put up with as a
vegan so I gave in any meat dairy and
eggs the whole spectrum of the industry
so she means during that during that
Christmas break I do want to say that
it's possible to be bulimic and stay
vegan I know people who do it and I
applaud them after Christmas I decided
to go vegetarian to try to have the best
of both worlds but I knew in my mind
that vegetarianism isn't really helping
much but I didn't want to eat meat this
started a cycle of constant change
between vegan vegetarian and omnivore
because she's struggling with her eating
disorder during this time I never
expected to live a full life
I honestly thought that every year going
past may be my last due my mental health
problems did this play a role in these
self-indulgence and self-hatred cycle
probably so some of you can relate to
that and some of you can't but when you
feel like you're forced into a very
short term view of your own life because
you're not really sure if you're gonna
be around five years from now
real talk that basically is the short
version of my history with eating
disorders and veganism I'm now beginning
a new chapter in my life where I'm
starting to reach out and get support
from my bulimia I've tried to read
people's recovery with eating disorders
and how veganism helped or hindered them
and the general consensus of how most
specialists don't believe in patients
going on a vegetarian or vegan diet
unless they have proof of religious
reasons
so this is the consensus among
psychiatrists are supposed to try to
help people these eating disorders
luckily or unluckily for me I don't meet
the requirements for inpatient treatment
so I have to go the long road of support
groups I you she's not gonna be checked
into a hospital I have the choice to do
vegan eating disorder recovery or just
work with nutritionists and doctors I
have more control about what my
treatment will look like and how I'm
gonna go about it I believe that I can
leave of lead a vegan life while
recovering from bulimia I'm also someone
who's well aware of what relapse signs
are and how to deal with them I'm not
here to ask you for eating disorder
advice good thing too because I don't
get beating disorder advice I'm not here
to ask you for eating disorder advice or
anything like that I'm asking you as
someone who posts the ups and downs of
their personal experiences life on
YouTube even though it's mostly negative
and real and some of the vegan community
hates you for it sorry I didn't really
give the pot that sentence didn't have
any comments in it she's asking me as
someone who posts his life including his
ups and downs my personal experiences on
YouTube even though some of the
community hate me for it
even though all those experience are
negative so is my story worth telling to
a vegan audience it wouldn't just be the
eating disorder but my views on current
events and veganism my experience of the
mental health system in Canada my
recovery
internet culture tumblr Instagram etc
honestly I can see other topics being
more impactful but my eating disorder is
a big part of my experience with
veganism okay so I'm leaving off the
ending she writes other flattering
things at the end of her letter warming
so I did respond to her briefly in email
and I told that I was going to record a
longer video in reply this video might
be even longer than she imagined already
um my advice tour is actually no don't
come on YouTube and I've already I think
covered one of the really important
reasons why I would advise someone like
this not to come on YouTube
I think that the type of really negative
you know fat shaming body image based
politics that we have going on within
the movement now I'm sorry there was
like the first ten minutes of this video
was talking about that in a pretty
relaxed way um I might be able to scoff
at it I might be able to laugh at it and
I do um you know some of you guys are
forgetting yes durianrider called me fat
I had laughed at it I thought it was
hilarious for a lot of other people you
know being humiliated publicly by an
influential figure with that possibly a
figure they look up to like if you
personally respect your and writers been
watching his videos fears that may be
extremely damaging and they be extremely
emotionally harrowing and for someone
like this that kind of experience put it
this way it's probably not what you want
to be dealing with so one part of it is
what we've already talked about in this
video um the the fact shaping image
based elements of what we're doing in
veganism as a fledgling social political
movement that's one aspect there are
others you know I think it really does
matter for most people including me
getting a job matters your boss and your
co-workers can watch anything you put on
YouTube and the vast majority of people
in terms their personality type they're
not cut out for that I just mentioned I
had a delightful lunch appointment I
didn't call it a date I met this woman
for lunch today to me it's great she can
learn about my divorce she can learned
about my personal life she can learn
about my vegan activism by coming on my
youtube channel I'm completely
comfortable that most people are not and
even if you think you're comfortable
with that you may be surprised just how
uncomfortable you get as soon as the
things are taken out of your control
as soon as other people are
misrepresenting what you've said people
are expecting you to respond to a video
they've made attacking you et cetera et
cetera and all that stuff all those
nasty person-to-person politics those
happen to channels that are way down at
two hundred subscribers five hundred
subscribe
really there are people with under two
hundred viewers who've had terrible
experiences I've mentioned repeatedly
this guy whose channel is called don't
interrupt daddy who ended up getting
fired he lost his job
because somebody who didn't like his
YouTube channel somebody I don't know
who repeatedly made phone calls to his
boss at work made abusive and insulting
and harassing and false phone calls to
his boss at work and that guy he gets
like 200 viewers per video he's not
famous he's not making money out of
YouTube or anything like that he's a
small viewer who stated his opinions and
his opinions were you know criticisms of
durianrider
right so that's had devastating
consequence of quantum particles from
just in terms of his ability to pay his
rent um you know keep keep a roof over
his head put food in the table etc I
don't know what's happened I don't know
if you found another job quickly or not
I've checked his channel but I don't
have any update on whether or not he's
he's bounced back from that or not so
don't think that the price of fame comes
with Fame when you have Micro Fame you
still have all the disadvantages of real
Fame and again for someone with this
background in terms of the two different
diagnose disorders you've got it's a
safe bet that you're not cut out for
that and keeping real it's a safe bet
you never will be
not when you're 30 not when you're 40
not when you're 50 I assume you're in
your mid-20s from this message I
actually don't know Orange um look I
think there's this big kind of anti
shame movement on the internet which is
very misleading I had people saying just
a thin my patreon group pay one dollar
to subscribe to my patreon channel by
the way but we do have conversations in
patreon and there were people saying oh
it's wrong to shame someone for being a
prostitute and it's equally wrong to
shame someone for being a John to shame
someone for paying money to have sex
with prostitutes
now this exercise I've done research on
in Southeast Asia and Cambodia Thailand
Laos in this area I've done recent probe
because of hiv/aids partly because of
human trafficking you know slavery to be
blunt there are different reasons why I
did formal research on that that sector
and those issues ethical as well as
political issues and economic issues and
religious issues they're all intertwined
um now I actually have a moderate view
of prostitution I'm neither an extremist
on one and or the other of that debate
however if you ask me is there a shame
attached to this for no reason no it's
completely sensible that there is shame
attached to this now that doesn't mean
people I think people should be thrown
in prison for it I think you have to
have very moderate laws governing these
things it doesn't mean I want police
going through the streets and
brutalizing people with billy clubs but
if you ask me on the cultural level is
there no reason why there is shame
attached to a man paying money so that a
woman will say flattering things to him
and pretend that he's handsome and have
sex with him in contrast to a man who
builds up a relationship with a woman I
don't know because of his sense of humor
or his charm or what-have-you is there
just no reason is there no explanation
for why shame is attached to one of
these activities and not the other no I
can't say that is there no reason why a
woman who selects her mate or her
boyfriend purely on the basis of cash
why that's regarded as more shameful
than someone who makes that decision on
the basis of a whole bunch of reasons
like he has a great sense of humor or
boredom or veganism no you know shame is
attached to these things for real
reasons and I know of other people on
YouTube who have the bravery and frankly
who have the economic stability in their
lives to come on camera and show you the
meds they're taking show you the
anti-anxiety meds or the antidepressants
or the different mind-altering drugs
they take on a daily basis that is very
brave and I do think for the right
person that's very useful in terms of
their personality types or what they can
do with who I I do I in a sense I
applaud that bravery but if that person
that says to me that this is something
that shouldn't be in any way shameful
you shouldn't feel bad about this you
should be proud like you should be proud
of your meds you should be proud of your
disorder um you have to look at it from
the employers perspective if you're
going to be employed as a schoolteacher
does it matter that six months ago you
were a prostitute if you're going to be
employed employed as a schoolteacher
does it matter that you're on
anti-psychotic medication and that you
may at any time go into a dissociative
State
where you don't recognize the people
around you and you don't know where you
are that's not that extreme an example
of a psychotic episode by the way
well you don't recognize the faces of
the people in the room it matters you
know people feel shame about these
things people very carefully guard the
reality of their diagnosed mental
disorders of their experience you know
with the medical system etc for real
reasons now I have I came on and shared
my life on the Internet at a time when
my prospects for employment were zero
and they're still pretty close to zero
like the career I have in front of me is
extremely humble and if you guys been
following this channel for a while you
know I even signed up to join the army
I volunteered to go work in a mine while
I was in University in Canada getting my
second University diploma I was applying
for all kinds of crazy jobs in Canada in
Europe in Asia what have you but my own
career situation is so terrible that the
negative impact of me coming on and
talking about Buddhism is not that bad
and sorry what is it I said that is but
it's true you know in Japan I think that
was a problem I think people in Japan
did not want to hire me because of my
material Buddhism but I've just put up
videos talking about how terrible my
experience was in Buddhism and you know
maybe from some perspective that's
something to be ashamed of from my
perspective I'm not ashamed of that and
I think I'm sharing something really
important and meaningful for a certain
audience my experience in veganism again
I feel that something important and
meaningful for a certain audience and I
just put up a video now I think my most
recent video before this one is about
how when I was doing humanitarian work
in Laos the government there some
members of the government very seriously
threatened to murder me very seriously
threatened to throw me in jail
ended up being Excel and of having to
flee the country amidst threats of
execution execution imprisonment
I was I was persecuted to put it in one
word now I'm not ashamed of that but one
of the reasons is I didn't do anything
wrong
I was doing I was do sand completely
moral I was actually being employed by
an agency that was handing out sacks of
rice to starving people so I don't feel
someone's gonna shame me for that
although they do people like Jeff Nelson
try to shame me because I have a
background
work Jeff Nelson wants to shame me
because I didn't you know go to business
school and try to earn as much money as
possible with whatever you know mental
abilities I've got in life well no I
don't know how about you Jeff you ever
volunteered for a project to hand out
sex advice to starving people
you ever had people threaten to kill you
because you were doing that you know is
what it is but you know that's a funny
story it's a weird story I'm willing to
come online and share that and I'm
willing to deal with and you know any
shame that may be cast upon me and there
is something cuz people do try to shame
me and humiliate me that way
but I've got to say I've read your email
I've taken what you said here seriously
and my advice to you is don't do it
you've got problems and your problems
are problems you haven't solved yet and
your problems are shameful you may not
feel any shame your friends may not see
the machine for think about an employer
think about an employer who's hiring you
to be a babysitter or a schoolteacher or
a firefighter if you want that as an
example something where they're a
life-and-death moment to moment
decisions and they want to know if
you're reliable they want to know if
they can count on you from that
perspective this is shameful because it
makes you look unreliable we'll talk if
you are gonna make a youtube channel you
specifically this one person who wrote
to me I don't mean everyone I would give
you the exact opposite advice of the
advice I give so often here about
keeping it real I think you would have
to have a very very carefully controlled
very narrow on message YouTube channel
in which you don't deal with those
aspects of your life at all and I mean
one of the reasons for that
psychologically as well as politically
is simply that your your problems aren't
solved yet these are problems you're
still wrestling with these problems
you're still trying to solve and I think
that someone could have said to me so I
just made I just made that video about
the government of Laos threatening to
kill me years and years ago right
what if I had been making and uploading
those videos while I was doing the job
in Laos what if I'd been filming myself
handing the sack of rice to the starving
family what if I was making the video
while the government official was
threatening to kill me
what if I was making the video even the
next day when I'm sitting there like
yeah you know guys yesterday this guy
from the government threatened to kill
me and you know now they're kicking me
out of other country oh my god it's not
cool it's not and I know for me
personally psychologically would a lot
of people would be a lot of people you'd
really really go through a lot at that
time so maybe this may be what your any
but maybe it's something you can talk
about in the internet 20 years from now
20 years is not a bad estimate I don't
even mean 10 years maybe 20 years from
now this is something you can put on
YouTube and maybe you've accomplished so
you know a level of economic stability
and just a level of authority in your
life where people know you're reliable
where 20 years to know you can talk
about this what you went through and the
people who have to trust you as a
babysitter as a schoolteacher as a
firefighter or just as a friend where
they're not gonna look at you funny
they're gonna know yeah yeah that girl
Lisa I don't know her name I'm just
making him am that girly you know she's
a rock you know yeah yeah yeah yeah you
know did you see her video where she
talked about what a tough time she had
in her 20s when she was struggling with
bulimia yeah but you know what wow she
came out of it even stronger you know we
you know if that's the situation or 20
years from now that's when you make that
video not today
don't do it it's gonna make you
unemployable it's gonna make you
miserable and it's gonna open you up to
an unending cycle of fat shaming and
humiliation and body image politics
within veganism that you know that right
now is an endemic feature of veganism as
a movement I don't know if it always
will be but I can definitely say in the
next two years next five years it's not
gonna change when I first came on
YouTube people were shocked and
horrified that I challenged that
paradigm that I challenged the paradigm
of lifestyle activism that I challenged
the paradigm of the permanent vacation
and said no this is bad and it's
counterproductive and it's wrong and in
the last two years I've got to say I'm
winning in a major way that's really
been challenged people view it all from
a different angle and that sometimes
people want to insolvent they said what
have you accomplished in activism this
is a ballast yell this is the channel
that pulled the gods out of their heaven
okay I did accomplish something and a
lot of what I accomplished it wasn't
even anything I did it wasn't any Talent
I brought to the game that was an
incredibly brittle backstabbing shallow
paradigm that was so influential in
veganism for a couple of years there I
think it had to crumble I think it had
to fall inevitably but I played my part
whether you see that as a canary in the
coal mine or the tack that someone
stepped on barefoot whatever it was yes
you know I did play my role in
challenging that and I hope that in the
future ten years from natori of snow
I hope that the whole situation for this
movement is more grounded in real
politics so the door is open for people
like you to get involved even if you are
to be blunt psychologically fragile
because you're struggling with bulimia
you're struggling with an anxiety
disorder I hope that we do have a
situation where someone like you can
share your voice in your perspective
without having to live in fear but right
now we'll talk the fear is real about us
Yin